# Generic oracle

**Open the oracle by clicking [this link](https://tukkek.github.io/generic-oracle/).**

This is a generic, customizable grid-based oracle ("random generator") with a large number of source keywords. Read below for a quick overview of the motivations for creating (and advantages of using) this project over traditional oracles.

A brief introduction to the concept of oracles themselves: "random generators" (like random character generators, dungeon generators, yes/no/but/and oracles) are a tool used in the context of writing to provide inspiration while writing a story, module, sourcebook and also in the context of roleplyaing games - either for a narrator who needs some help while preparing a game or during a session when you need to come up with something on the fly but inspiration has either run dry or started to get repetitive. They're also used during solo-roleplaying to "emulate" the improvising, unpredictable and dynamic role of a real narrator.

## Why a grid-based, online, generic oracle?

A few things bother me with traditional oracles, which I've read plenty of recently and I thought could be improved upon. I'll present those as the "advantages" of using a tool like this over a traditional table-based oracle.

* It's **generic**. It's great to have dedicated yes/no, character, setting, plot twist oracles and more but what happens when you need a "engineering failure in a spaceship" oracle? You'll be hard pressed to find one or you might even have to write you own (or realistically, you just won't and you try to come up with something yourself).
* **All-in-one, infinitevely-recursive generation**. If you're writing a space-opera setting, generate a result-set covering galaxy sectors, then for each sector generate a new result set representing the star systems on those sectors, then the planets and moon on each system... if you want to, you can go deeper into each planet, their own regions, cities, districts, neighborhoods... then even deeper into who resides on each district or frequents a certain venue, their family trees... generate sets for "current problems on this planet/district/family", "political parties fighting over the next election", etc, all with one single tool!
* The possible result-set of an electronic oracle is degrees of magnitude larger than those that come in printed form or that are context-specific, by their very nature. The largest traditional oracle I've seen was 4 pages of 200 nouns and 200 qualifiers, for a total of 40 thousand possibilities (and most oracles are a whole lot smaller than even that). On the same comparisonfor noun-adjective, this project's initial release offers almost **5 million possibilities** and that's not even to mention verbs/adverbs and more. It's also much easier to expand (contributions are welcome)!
* **Results are placed on a grid**, wihch you're free to customized and interpret as you want. Having read about a dozen oracle-filled publications recently, none offered much more than a linear read of table results, so hopefully that adds some degree of relationship (spacial, proximity, alignment, etc) between oracle results.
* Being online and electronic, it's **fast, easily accessible and recordable**. You can roll hundreds of results with the press of a button, you don't need to transcribe it into a notebook or text document. If you don't like how something comes up, try again as much as you wnat until something strikes your fancy. Focus on your gaming or writing, not on dice-rolling! Print, save or copy-paste results you like, ignore the ones you don't - you'll never settle for a bad result because you're lazy to roll up a new one. 
* It's free and online. Access if from anywhere, on any device, download the repository and save it to a usb stick if you want!

### What are the downsides of a grid-based, electronic, generic oracle?

* A generic oracle covers all possibilty-spaces but it also requires more interpretation and flexibility for the user to determine what those generic results mean for that particular context. Sometimes you may just want a character generator or kingdom generator. That's great and you can alwys go use those when they're more appropriate and come back to this one when you don't have anything else that will cover that particular context or when your traditional oracles start feeling too repetitive or restricting.
* Having over 6 thousand words on the initial release's dictionary, I can't promise you I reviewed every single one of them to make sure they're perfectly suitable to be used in a generic oracle. If you end up scractching your head and thinking "what should a Rabid Hot-dog Stand be interpreted as in my medieval fantasy setting" then rest assured I'm right there with you but it comes with the territory. Contributions and feedback are always welcome in helping deal with any rough edges in this project.
* It's electronic-only. If you absolutely need something you can print and roll on manually this one is not for you.
